Component configuration guides (#41)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/configuration-guides/components/metallb.md

## Introduction

[MetalLB](https://metallb.universe.tf/) is a load balancer implementation for bare metal Kubernetes
clusters, using standard routing protocols. It allows using Kubernetes Service of type `LoadBalancer`
on an infrastructure without native load balancing support.

On IaaS providers such as AWS or GCP, creating a Kubernetes Service of type `LoadBalancer` triggers an
automatic creation of a provider-specific load balancer which routes traffic to the Kubernetes service.
However, when running Kubernetes on bare metal environments such as [Packet](https://www.packet.com/),
which typically don't provide native load balancer support, creating a `LoadBalancer` Service would
result in the service staying forever in the `Pending` state since no load balancer is created by
the infrastructure provider. MetalLB helps solve this problem by creating a "virtual" load balancer
for each `LoadBalancer` service. It does so using standard network protocols such as BGP and ARP.

## Prerequisites

* A Lokomotive cluster accessible via kubectl deployed on Packet.

* A [compatible](https://metallb.universe.tf/installation/network-addons/) cluster networking addon.

> * Atleast one IPv4 address pool for MetalLB to allocate - one address is needed per `LoadBalancer` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At least one IPv4 address pool for MetalLB to allocate - one address is needed per `LoadBalancer` service.
```

## Configuration

MetalLB can operate in two modes: **BGP** and **layer 2**. This component currently supports only
the BGP mode.

MetalLB operates by allocating one IPv4 address to each service of type `LoadBalancer` created on
the cluster. It then advertises this address to one or more upstream BGP routers. This enables both
high availability and load balancing: high availability is achieved since BGP naturally converges
upon node failure, and load balancing is achieved using
[ECMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal-cost_multi-path_routing).

MetalLB component configuration example:

```hcl
component "metallb" {
  address_pools = {
    default = ["147.63.8.20/32"]
    special_addresses = ["147.85.47.16/29", "147.85.47.24/29"]
  }
  # Optional
  controller_node_selectors = {
    "kubernetes.io/hostname" = "worker3"
  }
  # Optional
  speaker_node_selectors = {
    "ingress_node" = "true"
    "node-role.kubernetes.io/node" = ""
  }
  # Optional
  speaker_toleration {
    key = "speaker_key1"
    operator = "Equal"
    value = "value1"
  }
  # Optional
  controller_toleration {
    key = "controller_key1"
    operator = "Equal"
    value = "value1"
  }

>   # Optional. Prometheus operator component should be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional. If true the Prometheus operator component should be installed.
```
